Blog: What is a product engineer (and why they matter) (#4781)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/what-is-a-product-engineer.md

---
date: 2022-11-30
title: "What is a product engineer (and why they matter)"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["ian-vanagas"]

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-company-culture-blog.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
```

featuredImageType: full

> categories: ["Startups"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories: ["Startups", "Guides"]
```

> “Great developer tooling. Our CI/CD takes ~10m, and we deploy at least 5x a day. Everyone on the team has contributed to developer experience 💪🏾”

A great developer experience enables product engineers to ship fast and focus on the other parts of the work. Having to deal with integration, deployment, and infrastructure prevents them from focusing on shipping features, talking to customers, doing research, and other important tasks. A company like [incident.io](http://incident.io) invests heavily in developer experience to enable this:

> “Investing heavily in the developer experience: whether it’s metrics, logging, tracing and error tracking, or development workflow. Build times are blazing fast: our CI to deploy time is ~5m. Everyone uses a M1 Pro Macbook, and you have budget for other equipment should you need it.”

## Product engineering skills

From these characteristics, we can define the skills product engineers have, here’s a list:

> - Ship features that users care about, where ever they are on the stack. Ship rapidly and iterate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ship features that users care about, wherever they are on the stack. Ship rapidly and iterate.
```

> - Ship features that users care about, where ever they are on the stack. Ship rapidly and iterate.
> - Develop opinions, be able to communicate them, and turn them into features. Be able to explain why a feature matters to customers as well as its importance in the competitive landscape.
> - Create prototypes and test them with users. Run experiments and understand their results. Be able to design for yourself and use design systems.
> - Talk with customers, analyze data, and be aware of the competitive landscape to understand what to build.
> - Use tools that automate non-product work like infrastructure, integration, deployment, and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ship features that users care about, wherever they are on the stack. Ship rapidly and iterate.

- Develop opinions, be able to communicate them, and turn them into features. Be able to explain why a feature matters to customers as well as its importance in the competitive landscape.

- Create prototypes and test them with users. Run experiments and understand their results. Be able to design for yourself and use design systems.

- Talk with customers, analyze data, and be aware of the competitive landscape to understand what to build.

- Use tools that automate non-product work like infrastructure, integration, deployment, and testing.
```
